I'm going to finish with the last technique. It's a, a submission, I'm going to attack the arm bar.
From that distance.
And I saved this one for last because,
it can be a situation where you don't have a lot of time and you need to surprise your opponent and this is this is the kind of move that
you can finish if you're precise with the technique and you have a good understanding, you drill this technique, you can finish the fight in the last 10 seconds and, uh, you pull up a win, uh, in a fight that could be very hard for you.
So,
I really believe that whenever we need to be able to be creative, we need to be able to adapt ourselves to the fight and whenever the fight starts getting stressful as a competitor, you learn how to think outside of the box and, uh, and do something that will surprise your opponent and I really believe this technique is, uh, is just like that.
It's like the move is not complicated, but like because of the set of grips that you have, it's not something that your opponent will be expecting.
So I have a grip on the collar and he's doing a torino pass, normally like the person is feeling that he's attacking and like he has really good control of the fight at this moment.
And, uh, same thing, like the move that the person it's, uh,
they're expecting at this moment is the collar drag, that is a very common move, they can be expecting, uh, ankle pick, for example, because my hand is free, but they will never like from this situation, they don't expect an arm bar because there's no set up from this position. So I really believe that the arm bar can surprise your opponent.
What I do here is that I go with the leg that it's free or it's like the opposite side of the grip on the collar, on the hip because my hip it's like the angle of my hip is on this side here, that's how I'm defending my guard and I keep the grip there, he has like double grip on the pants, for example, I'm going to slide my foot up and I'm going to switch my hip to the other side.
So from here I'm framing and I step on the hip, whenever I step on the hip, I move my hip out and I open my leg in order to expose this arm here.
Because this hand is the one that it's free, I need this hand to finish the arm bar.
So from this position, I'm going to do this.
Now I catch the triceps.
I break the grip.
So whenever I have the triceps here, I break the grip by kicking and now this leg is going to go over, creating an, a straight arm bar here.
Look how I close my elbow and his hand gets stuck under my armpit.
The grip on the collar will keep him in this position.
And now just closing my knee and that pressing with my hand and my knee against the elbow.
And you're going to see.
He's doing a trill no pass.
I have a very strong frame, my head's in front of my body, I'm doing everything right here to frame.
But let's say I'm losing the match and I have to come up with something.
Maybe just a sweep is not going to save, uh, the fight.
I'm losing by more than two points, so I need that submission.
A scenario that normally we don't see a lot of opportunities.
I'm going to slide my foot up, angle.
And attack the arm.
Now we finished.
Studying three different distance.
On bottom, just like how we did for the for the top.
You have near distance, middle distance and far distance.
They're all very different, very important that you understand how to do the transition like between the the three techniques.
And very important that you understand what the opponent is trying to do and all the possibility for from all the the two distance and the the 10 techniques that I showed for each distance, it's like a my preference is the techniques that I normally like to use based on my game based on the techniques that I show in the academy.
But, uh, you can always add more to your game like if you don't have a lot of experience or if you're trying to understand,
our style fighting, I would recommend you to master the third techniques that I showed, implement those moves to your game with the mindset that I I explained to you and, uh,
you're going to see a lot of change in your game, you're going to see improvements for sure and uh, from there you can always add more techniques, you can always, uh, create your own details.
But it's very important to have something to start from and I really believe that studying this three distance from the bottom, you drilling and doing specific training of this, uh, 30 techniques that we studied, uh, will take your game to the next level and uh, will make you,
to the next level and will make you.
```